What is an API and How It Works
An API stands for Application Programming Interface
It is a set of rules for software to communicate
APIs allow different applications to talk to each other
When you use an app, the app uses an API
The app sends a request through the API
The server processes the request and responds
REST APIs are the most popular type today
They use standard HTTP methods for operations
GET method retrieves data from the server
POST method creates new data on the server
PUT method updates existing data on the server
DELETE method removes data from the server
Authentication is required for secure API access
An API key identifies the user making requests
Rate limiting prevents too many requests at once
JSON is the most common data format for APIs
JSON is easy to read and widely supported
Google Maps API powers many map applications
Twitter API allows posting and reading tweets
Stripe API handles payment processing securely
Weather APIs provide forecast data to apps
APIs are essential for modern software development
They enable applications to work together seamlessly